# Reflection

<p> One of the most significant challenges for a new learner to creating websites, either on WordPress or GitHub, is how to make the website look good. I don't mean by themes or by decoration, but how best to lay everything out and make the website have a flow to it. Yes, you do have to actually learn how to operate with the tools in WordPress or the markdown code in GitHub, but that stuff can be taught rather quickly. The harder part is to have the mindset of setting up pages of your website in a way that makes sense, but doesn’t overload the viewer nor makes it too confusing for them. You might know how to get around your website by clicking links or images to navigate, but someone brand new to the website may not know how embedded links work. You have to craft your website for other people, not just for yourself. </p>
<p> One advantage of GitHub Pages is that you do whatever you want with your website as long as you know the Markdown and/or HTML ways to do so. There is a bigger freedom in the GitHub Pages since it is a more professional and intensive way to create websites. On the other hand, one advantage of WordPress is that it is much easier to navigate, add text, images and formatting in the ways you want it to, and it is much less trial and error than trying to figure out code in GitHub. </p>
<p> The main challenge of GitHub Pages’ way of doing formatting is that you need to know the Markdown and/or HTML code to do things. For example, to get a header you need a #  at the beginning of a word, or you need to number a list with just “1.” repeatedly in Markdown to make a numbered list. Those tricks with the code can only be learned through practicing and researching how to do things with Markdown, and for more complex tasks, such as image sharing, video sharing, etc., it will be harder for someone not as knowledgeable about code to prepare a complex website. WordPress is much easier for beginners, but it might be difficult to do more advanced techniques. The interface for WordPress and where you actually put the content in when editing a page reminds me of Microsoft Word, and that can be confusing as well to some people. As well, there are so many different buttons and pages to go to while editing a single website page that it can be overwhelming seeing all the content that you could mess around with while putting together a website. </p>
<p> It’s easy to figure out what skills are necessary to learn before developing a website on both platforms. For GitHub, you need to learn Markdown or HTML. That’s the bare minimum requirement for doing anything on the site. The only part of the development process you don’t need to know any code for is putting in basic text, in the normal size and font, but who wants that when there are so many more possibilities for a website? On the WordPress side, I did not have a problem with picking up and sending out a site, probably because it is sort of similar to Google Sites which I used previously. However, the best skill to pick up is just practicing using the interface for WordPress and figuring out what all the buttons do before you end up accidentally deleting a page or a whole day’s worth of work. </p>
<p> For continuing work on the site, I would like to learn more Markdown and HTML so I can add better formatting and make the site look a lot less basic. Learning HTML would be helpful anyway as a Computer Science major as that would be another language that I can place on my resumé for the future. Learning website design and the basics of how to make a good-looking website for the user is also something that I should improve on, as you could make the best-looking website out there, but if it is confusing and hard to navigate, who is going to want to be on it? </p>
<p> In conclusion, the project was a fun experience, and opened me up to possibly making other websites in the future and pushing me towards wanting to learn more about Markdown code and HTML for future projects as well. </p>

* [Click Here to View my Wordpress Website](https://sites.psu.edu/bpm5520/)

[Home](index.md)
